# Abstract

Recommender systems are software tools and techniques that provide some suggestions to the user. Recommendation systems can be used in a wide range of applications based on the product or service that has to be recommended. One such application is that of connecting people in a huge network. After conducting a considerable research and exploring several methodologies of improving recommendations the topic of graph theory was found to be an most promising to make recommendation. In the course of this thesis, the focus is on combining the concept of link prediction in Graph theory to analyze the network and to study how this can be useful in the recommendations systems to make a more precise and accurate recommendations.
Social network analysis is a powerful strategy for investigating social structures and online networking sites on the internet can represent a social network of at an unprece- dented scale. Social network analysis [SNA] can map, measure the relationships and flows between people, groups, organizations, computers and other connected entities. This work focuses on the aspect of social network analysis that describe the structure of ties within a set of social users. Some of the major topics that has been discussed in this regard are: bridges, tie strength and the property of triadic closure. The data needed for the analysis is collected from a popular social networking website Xing that operates majorly in DACH (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) area.
Futhermore, the implementaion and the challenges faced regarding the topics of rec- ommendations and the use of social network analysis to recommend connections are reviewed. It concludes with validation and evaluation of results, study of applications and future work that can be carried out concerning the use of social network analysis in contact recommendation systems.
